# Requirements

## Introduction
Student Management System  is a solution tool that is designed to track, maintain and manage all the data generated by a School, including the grades of a student, their attendance, their interpersonal activities records, etc.Student management system acts as the bottom line database to store all the day-to-day school operations, maintain the proper records of the past few decades, regulate the various operation modules, managing the critical tasks, efficiently handling the administrative processes 

## Research


### Objective
The main objective of the scholar Management System is to manage the small print of Profiles, Cources, Logins, Exams, Fees. It manages all the knowledge regarding Profiles, Student, Fees, Profiles. The project is completely designed at body finish and therefore solely the administrator is secured the access.

### Benefits
The advantages of Student Management System code cannot be explained but may possibly be summarized. the world has seen a fantastic growth in technology in past few decades than in centuries; with necessity in vapor and knowledge management, many organizations have opened their gates to change procedures by reducing human effort. With Student management system code abounding of paper work may possibly be circumvented. Mishandling of information is biggest issues in many organizations hence; to bypass misuses Management System applications unit designed at a lower place regulate tips and directives. cooperative coordination between faculty and students may possibly be earned  and, announcements are written with one click in bulk via these simple programs. Few applications supply folks access to candidate’s tutorial performances and behaviors. 

*>Eco-Friendly: work are avoided
*>Efficient management over student info
*>Monitor student performance
*>supervise multiple branches
*>Cost-efficient and straightforward
*>Single resolution for total faculty management
*>Easy access to forums, attendance, timetable, marks, grades and examination schedule
*>Prior intimation regarding faculty events and holidays via notification Elimination of people-dependent processes

## Costs And Features
### Features

*>Customizable modules and plug-ins: each faculty incorporates a completely different demand. Some might have associate degree attending appliance whereas others might have analysis metrics. A student management system permits you to own each module and plug-in which will increase the school’s potency.
*>Data security and backup: you are doing not have to be compelled to worry concerning stealing and losing out on your necessary documents because the system makes positive everything is safe and secured on-line.
*>Dynamic plug-ins: this might be an excellent thanks to update the oldsters and therefore the stakeholders with relevant news. as an example, serving to unfold spoken selling associated with associate degree forthcoming sports event. this can be one in every of the vital options of a student management system.
*>Easy user interface: Student Management Systems ar created in an exceedingly means that everybody will simply build use of them. they need a straightforward nonetheless elaborated navigation flow and if any issue pops up, you'll simply get the picture resolved by the support team.
*>Easy to find out and use: These conjointly keep company with an in depth set of guides and modules victimization that anyone will {learn how|find out how|learn the means} to use the system within the best way.
*>Easy and swift implementation: the explanation many faculties don’t adopt completely different tools and software package is that it will take months to implement. The case is completely different for this explicit system and therefore the advantages it will bring way outweighs the limited time that's needed for its implementation at first.
*>Empowers lecturers and IT department: Be it obtaining access to learning modules, performance and absence OR minimizing the efforts IT professionals have to be compelled to desire store and manage knowledge... lecturers and IT department will get loads finished very little effort and save time to figure on a lot of significant areas.
*>Free demo: you are doing not need to quickly purchase a system before knowing the advantages it will bring. a faculty management system comes with free demonstrations for you to form a far better call.

### Costs
This will vary from twelve – forty agency per user. If you've got five hundred students or 5000, the options offered are constant however the valuation can take issue. as an example, if you've got a thousand students you'll pay twelve,000 agency per month, beaked annually If you wish oldsters to even have User Ids except the scholars and workers, then the valuation could go up. several of the subscription-based models charge solely by the quantity of scholars and not the Ids, thus investigate the terms of the agreement. Also, the vendors area unit receptive negotiation once the coed numbers exceed 2000. it's vital to clarify if the licenses area unit revived yearly.
Some vendors offer a flat fee for establishments, no matter the quantity of users. For larger academic customise establishments, this can be the foremost cost-efficient resolution.Cloud Facilitation: Cloud-enabled systems permit you to simply store and manage everything from attending, assessments, study kits to performance records. this protects loads of on-site  investment as a result of you not have to be compelled to have an area server, software, and IT professionals performing on identical. Any and every one data you wish is simply a click away.
Cost and energy saving: Since everything is on-line, you are doing not ought to print each document and have an infatuated on-site  storage facility. This helps save loads of energy and price since there’s without stopping to physical storage once it starts pile up.

### Defining Our System
Information storage is what Associate in Nursing SIS will at its most elementary. meaning records consolidated tired one place for college students, teachers, and oldsters to access. Reports may be created on something, from what percentage students ar native to what standard is in any given category.

## SWOT ANALYSIS

## strength

*>Influenced Decisions locally
*>Provided variety of ICT Tools

## oppurtunity

*>Could be extended with more Advanced Decisions
*>May foster Democratic values

## weakness
 
*>Low participation
*>Less Trust

## Threats

*>Rapid Change in technology
*>Language barrier




## 4W's And 1'H


### who:
student management system is used mainly by students and parents




### What:
student management system is used mostly used to store the students personal details




### When:
It is mainly used during admission process and result analysis




### Where:
It is mainly used in Eduavtional institutions



### How:
students are provided with user id and pass word where they can access their details when ever required




## High Level Requirements:
| ID | Description | Cateogery | Status |
| ---|:------------|:----------|:-------|
| HR01 | SHOWS WELCOME MESSAGE| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR02 | SHOWS HEAD MESSAGE| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR03 | SHOWS LOADING ON FRONT PAGE| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR04 | CHECKS THE USER NAME| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR05 | CHECKS LEAP YEAR| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR06 | CHECKS DATE| Technical |IMPLEMENTED |
| HR07 | ADD STUDENT DETAILS IN DATABASE| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR08 | SEARCHES  THE STUDENTS  DETAILS| Technical |IMPLEMENTED |
| HR09 | SHOW STUDENT DETAILS| Technical | IMPLEMENTED |
| HR11 | IT DELETES THE INFORMATION| Technical |IMPLEMENTED |
| HR12 | UPDATES THE CREDENTIAL| Technical |IMPLEMENTED |
| HR13 | LOGIN WITH NEW CREDENTIAL| Technical |IMPLEMENTED |
| HR14 | PROVIDES A BRIEF DESCRIPTION ON AVAILABLE OPERATIONS | Technical |IMPLEMENTED |
| HR15 | CHECKS THE FILE| Technical |IMPLEMENTED |




## Low Level Requirements:
| ID | Description | HLR ID | Status(IMPLEMENTED/FUTURE) |
|----|:------------|:-------|:---------------------------|
| LR01 | SHOWS WELCOME MESSAGE  | HR01 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR02 | SHOWS HEAD MESSAGE ON TOP OF PAGE  | HR02 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR03 | SHOWS LOADING ON FRONT PAGE TO USER | HR03 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR04 | CHECKS WHETHER THE USER NAME IS VALID OR NOT  | HR04| IMPLEMENTED |
| LR05 | CHECKS WHETHER THE YEAR ENTERED BY USER IS LEAP YEAR  | HR05 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR06 | CHECKS WHETHER THE DATE ENETERED BY USER IS VALID | HR06| IMPLEMENTED |
| LR07 | COLLECTS STUDENTS DETAILS AND STORES IN DATABASE  | HR07 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR08 | SEARCHES THE STUDENT DETAILS AS USER ENTERS USER ID  | HR08 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR09 | SHOWS STUDENT DETAILS AS REQUESTED BY USER | HR09 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR10 | IT DELETES THE INFORMATION OF A STUDENT AS REQUESTED BT THE USER  | HR10| IMPLEMENTED |
| LR11 | IT UPDATES THE NEW LOGIN CREDENTIALS  | HR11 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR12 | LOGIN WITH NEW CREDENTIAL AS UPDATED BY USER | HR12 | IMPLEMENTED |
| LR13 | GUIDES INTO THE USER SPECIFIED OPERATION   | HR13| IMPLEMENTED |
| LR14 | CHECKS WHETHER THE FILE EXIST  | HR14 | IMPLEMENTED |















